# Gulf-of-Maine-cod-MSE-framework

Management strategy evaluation (MSE) is an effective tool to evaluate the performance of harvest control rules (HCRs) and alternative management strategies. This MSE framework is developed for the Gulf of Maine cod (Gadus morhua) and conditioned utilizing stock-specific parameterization. The framework has several semi-independent sub-models and accounted for uncertainties from multiple sources. The sim-ulated population dynamics was calibrated and validated against historical trend in hindcasting. Forecasting simulations were also conducted and validated to examine the effectiveness in the context of uncertainty. Hindcasting results suggested that the calibrated MSE framework could capture the stock dynamics assuming different recruitment dynamics indicated by residuals lower than 5%. Forecasting stochastic runs demonstrated minor disparity between management effects of fishing mortality-based and catch-based HCRs when the segregated stock recruitment relationship was adopted with difference in simulated spawning stock biomass lower than 10%. The results were comparable to assessment and projections made in the stock as-sessment, indicating robustness of the framework. The framework can potentially help disentangle complex issues related to mixed fishery, decision-making, and performance evaluation of monitoring system.

For full details and reference of the framework:
Sun M, Li Y, Ren Y, Chen Y. Developing and evaluating a management strategy evaluation framework for the Gulf of Maine cod (Gadus morhua). Ecological Modelling. 2019 Jul 24;404:27-35.
